Jobs [Distributed Scheduler] API docs, pt.1 (#4164)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/building-blocks/scheduler/scheduler-overview.md

---
type: docs
title: "Scheduler overview"
linkTitle: "Overview"
weight: 1000
description: "Overview of the scheduler API building block"
---

> The Scheduler API works as an orchestrator for scheduling jobs in the future,  either at a specific time or a specific interval. The scheduler helps you with scheduling jobs, including scalable actor reminders. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many applications require job scheduling, the need to take an action in the future. The scheduler API is an orchestrator for scheduling these jobs in the future, either at a specific time or a specific interval. 

Some typically example scenarios include;
- **Automated Database Backups**: Ensure its database is backed up daily to prevent data loss. Schedule a backup script to run every night at 2 AM, which will create a backup of the database and store it in a secure location.

- **Regular Data Processing and ETL (Extract, Transform, Load)**: Process and transform raw data from various sources and load it into a data warehouse. Schedule ETL jobs to run at specific times (e.g., hourly, daily) to fetch new data, process it, and update the data warehouse with the latest information.

**Email Notifications and Reports**: Receive daily sales reports and weekly performance summaries via email. Schedule a job that generates the required reports and sends them via email at 6 AM every day for daily reports and 8 AM every Monday for weekly summaries.

**Maintenance Tasks and System Updates**: Perform regular maintenance tasks such as clearing temporary files, updating software, and checking system health. Schedule various maintenance scripts to run at off-peak hours, such as weekends or late nights, to minimize disruption to users.

**Batch Processing for Financial Transactions**: Processes a large number of transactions that need to be batched and settled at the end of each business day. Schedule batch processing jobs to run at 5 PM every business day, aggregating the day’s transactions and performing necessary settlements and reconciliations.

Using the scheduler API in these scenarios ensures that tasks are performed consistently and reliably without manual intervention, improving efficiency and reducing the risk of errors. The scheduler helps you with scheduling jobs, and internally it is also used by Dapr to schedule actor reminders. 
```

> The Scheduler consists of two parts that work together to seamlessly schedule jobs across all of Dapr's API building blocks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scheduler consists of:
```

> - The Scheduler building block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The scheduler API building block
```

- [The Scheduler control plane service]({{< ref "concepts/dapr-services/scheduler.md" >}})

<img src="/images/scheduler/scheduler-architecture.png" alt="Diagram showing basics of the Scheduler control plane and the Scheduler API">

## How it works

> The Scheduler building block is a job orchestrator, not executor. The design guarantees *at least once* job execution with a bias towards durability and horizontal scaling over precision. This means:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Scheduler API is a job orchestrator, not the executor which run the job. The design guarantees *at least once* job execution with a bias towards durability and horizontal scaling over precision. This means:
```

> - **Guaranteed:** A job is never invoked *before* the schedule is due.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guaranteed:** A job is never invoked *before* the schedule time is due.
```

- **Not guaranteed:** A ceiling time on when the job is invoked *after* the due time is reached.

> All job details and user-associated data for scheduled jobs are stored in the embedded Etcd. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All job details and user-associated data for scheduled jobs are stored in an embedded Etcd database in the Scheduler service. 
```

> ## Features

Reviewer: The scheduler provides several features to make it easy for you to schedule jobs

### Delayed pub/sub

> The Scheduler building block enables you to delay your pub/sub messaging. You can publish a message in a future specific time -- for example, a week from today, or a specific UTC date/time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the scheduler to delay your pub/sub messaging. You can publish a message in a future specific time -- for example, a week from today, or a specific UTC date/time.
```

### Scheduled service invocation

> The Scheduler building block provides the [service invocation]({{< ref service-invocation-overview.md >}}) building block with an orchestrator that schedules method calls between applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the scheduler with [service invocation]({{< ref service-invocation-overview.md >}}) to schedules method calls between applications.
```

### Schedule jobs across multiple replicas

The Scheduler service enables the scheduling of jobs to scale across multiple replicas, while guaranteeing that a job is only triggered by 1 scheduler service instance.

> ### Scheduler reminders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Actor reminders
```

> Actors have actor reminders, but present some limitations involving scalability. Make reminders more scalable by using `SchedulerReminders`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actors have actor reminders, but present some limitations involving scalability. Make reminders scalable by using `SchedulerReminders`. 
```

> ## Try out the Scheduler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Try out the scheduler API
```

> You can try out the Scheduler building block directly in your application. After [Dapr is installed]({{< ref install-dapr-cli.md >}}), you can begin using the Scheduler API, starting with [the How-to: Set up a Scheduler guide]({{< ref howto-use-scheduler.md >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try out the scheduler in your application. After [Dapr is installed]({{< ref install-dapr-cli.md >}}), you can begin using the scheduler API, starting with [the How-to: Set up a Scheduler guide]({{< ref howto-use-scheduler.md >}}).
```

---
type: docs
title: "Scheduler overview"
linkTitle: "Overview"
weight: 1000
description: "Overview of the scheduler API building block"
---

The Scheduler API works as an orchestrator for scheduling jobs in the future,  either at a specific time or a specific interval. The scheduler helps you with jobs like:

- Scalable actor reminders

> - Scheduling any Dapr API to run at specific times or intervals, like when:

Reviewer 2: This will come, but we don't have this quite yet- scheduling other Dapr APIs. Maybe for now we can say scheduling jobs in a general sense and in the following releases expanded to scheduling other Dapr APIs (which are those bullets)...

Author: Sounds good! I'll keep from promising anything and just stick to something like the following in line 9: 
> "...scheduling jobs, including scalable actor reminders."

## How it works

The Scheduler building block is a job orchestrator, not executor. The design guarantees *at least once* job execution with a bias towards durability and horizontal scaling over precision. This means:
- **Guaranteed:** A job is never invoked *before* the schedule is due.
- **Not guaranteed:** A ceiling time on when the job is invoked *after* the due time is reached.

## Features

### Delayed pub/sub

The Scheduler building block enables you to delay your pub/sub messaging. You can publish a message in a future specific time -- for example, a week from today, or a specific UTC date/time.

### Scheduled service invocation

The Scheduler building block provides the [service invocation]({{< ref service-invocation-overview.md >}}) building block with an orchestrator that schedules method calls between applications.

### Schedule jobs across multiple replicas

The Scheduler service enables the scheduling of jobs to scale across multiple replicas, while guaranteeing that a job is only triggered by 1 scheduler service instance.

### Scheduler reminders

> Actors have actor reminders, but present some limitations involving scalability. Make reminders more scalable by using `ScheduleReminders`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Actors have actor reminders, but present some limitations involving scalability. Make reminders more scalable by using `SchedulerReminders`. 
```

### Store job details separately from user-associated data

If you'd like to store your user-associated data in a specific state store of your choosing, then you can:

1. Provision a state store using the [Dapr state management building block]({{< ref howto-get-save-state.md >}}).

> 1. Set `jobStateStore ` as `true` in the state store component’s metadata section. 

Reviewer 2: We also don't have this quite yet, but will in a following release

Author: @cicoyle To clarify - should I save the whole "Store job details separately from user-associated data" section for a later release? Or just the second numbered item?

Reviewer 2: Technically, we dont have support for the `jobStateStore` yet, and will not for 1.14. Everything will be stored in etcd atm. The `jobStateStore` feature will be added post 1.14.
